admin_manual/configuration_files/federated_cloud_sharing_configuration.rst, before:

==============================
Configuring Federation Sharing
==============================

Federated Cloud Sharing is now managed by the Federation app (9.0+), and is 
now called Federation sharing. When you enable the Federation app you can 
easily and securely link file shares between Nextcloud servers, in effect 
creating a cloud of Nextclouds.
 

.. _label-direct-share-link:   
   
Creating a new Federation Share
-------------------------------

Follow these steps to create a new Federation share between two Nextcloud 
servers. This requires no action by the user on the remote server; all it takes 
is a few steps on the originating server.

1. Enable the Federation app.

2. Go to your Nextcloud Admin page and scroll to the Sharing 
   section. Verify that **Allow users on this server to send shares to other 
   servers** and **Allow users on this server to receive shares from other 
   servers** are enabled. 

3. Now go to the Federation 
   section. By default, **Add server automatically once a federated share was 
   created successfully** is checked. The Federation app supports creating a 
   list of trusted Nextcloud servers, which allows the trusted servers to 
   exchange user directories and auto-complete the names of external users when 
   you create shares. If you do not want this enabled, then un-check it.

.. figure:: images/federation-0.png
   
4. Now go to your Files page and select a folder to share. Click the share 
   icon, and then enter the username and URL of the user on the remote Nextcloud 
   server. In this example, that is ``freda@https://example.com/nextcloud``. 
   When Nextcloud verifies the link, it displays it with the **(remote)** label. 
   Click on this label to establish the link.

.. figure:: images/federation-2.png

5. When the link is successfully completed, you have a single share option, 
   and that is **can edit**.

.. figure:: images/federation-3.png

You may disconnect the share at any time by clicking the trash can icon.

Configuring trusted Nextcloud servers
-------------------------------------

You may create a list of trusted Nextcloud servers for Federation sharing. This 
allows your linked Nextcloud servers to share user directories, and to auto-fill 
user names in share dialogs. If **Add server automatically once a federated 
share was created successfully** is enabled on your Admin page, servers will be 
automatically added to your trusted list when you create new Federation shares.

You may also enter Nextcloud server URLs in the **Add Nextcloud Server** field. 
The yellow light indicates a successful connection, with no user names 
exchanged. The green light indicates a successful connection with user names 
exchanged. A red light means the connection failed.

.. figure:: images/federation-1.png

.. _label-public-link-share:

Creating Federation Shares via public Link Share
------------------------------------------------

Check the ``Share link`` entry to expose more sharing options (which are 
described more fully in :doc:`file_sharing_configuration`). You may create a 
Federation share by allowing Nextcloud to create a public link for you, and then 
email it to the person you want to create the share with.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-6.png
   
You may optionally set a password and expiration date on it. When your recipient 
receives your email they must click the link, or copy it to a Web 
browser. They will see a page displaying a thumbnail of the file, with a button 
to **Add to your Nextcloud**.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-8.png

Your recipient should click the **Add to your Nextcloud** button. On the next 
screen your recipient needs to enter the URL to their Nextcloud 
server, and then press the return key.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-9.png

Your recipient has to take one more step, and that is to confirm creating the 
federated cloud share link by clicking the **Accept** button.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-10.png

Un-check the ``Share link`` checkbox to disable any federated cloud share 
created this way.

Configuration tips
------------------

The Sharing section on your Admin page allows you to control how your users 
manage federated cloud shares:

* Check ``Enforce password protection`` to require passwords on link shares.
* Check ``Set default expiration date`` to require an expiration date on link 
  shares.
* Check ``Allow public uploads`` to allow two-way file sharing.

Your Apache Web server must have ``mod_rewrite`` enabled, and you must have 
``trusted_domains`` correctly configured in ``config.php`` to allow external 
connections (see :doc:`../installation/installation_wizard`). Consider also 
enabling SSL to encrypt all traffic between your servers .

Your Nextcloud server creates the share link from the URL that you used to log 
into the server, so make sure that you log into your server using a URL that is 
accessible to your users. For example, if you log in via its LAN IP address, 
such as ``http://192.168.10.50``, then your share URL will be something like 
``http://192.168.10.50/nextcloud/index.php/s/jWfCfTVztGlWTJe``, which is not 
accessible outside of your LAN. This also applies to using the server name; for 
access outside of your LAN you need to use a fully-qualified domain name such as 
``http://myserver.example.com``, rather than ``http://myserver``.

Commit message:

How to fix yellow Light manually

admin_manual/configuration_files/federated_cloud_sharing_configuration.rst, after:

==============================
Configuring Federation Sharing
==============================

Federated Cloud Sharing is now managed by the Federation app (9.0+), and is 
now called Federation sharing. When you enable the Federation app you can 
easily and securely link file shares between Nextcloud servers, in effect 
creating a cloud of Nextclouds.
 

.. _label-direct-share-link:   
   
Creating a new Federation Share
-------------------------------

Follow these steps to create a new Federation share between two Nextcloud 
servers. This requires no action by the user on the remote server; all it takes 
is a few steps on the originating server.

1. Enable the Federation app.

2. Go to your Nextcloud Admin page and scroll to the Sharing 
   section. Verify that **Allow users on this server to send shares to other 
   servers** and **Allow users on this server to receive shares from other 
   servers** are enabled. 

3. Now go to the Federation 
   section. By default, **Add server automatically once a federated share was 
   created successfully** is checked. The Federation app supports creating a 
   list of trusted Nextcloud servers, which allows the trusted servers to 
   exchange user directories and auto-complete the names of external users when 
   you create shares. If you do not want this enabled, then un-check it.

.. figure:: images/federation-0.png
   
4. Now go to your Files page and select a folder to share. Click the share 
   icon, and then enter the username and URL of the user on the remote Nextcloud 
   server. In this example, that is ``freda@https://example.com/nextcloud``. 
   When Nextcloud verifies the link, it displays it with the **(remote)** label. 
   Click on this label to establish the link.

.. figure:: images/federation-2.png

5. When the link is successfully completed, you have a single share option, 
   and that is **can edit**.

.. figure:: images/federation-3.png

You may disconnect the share at any time by clicking the trash can icon.

Configuring trusted Nextcloud servers
-------------------------------------

You may create a list of trusted Nextcloud servers for Federation sharing. This 
allows your linked Nextcloud servers to share user directories, and to auto-fill 
user names in share dialogs. If **Add server automatically once a federated 
share was created successfully** is enabled on your Admin page, servers will be 
automatically added to your trusted list when you create new Federation shares.

You may also enter Nextcloud server URLs in the **Add Nextcloud Server** field. 
The yellow light indicates a successful connection, with no user names 
exchanged. The green light indicates a successful connection with user names 
exchanged. A red light means the connection failed.

.. figure:: images/federation-1.png

If the light does not turn green sometimes it helps to enter the server it self as a trusted server and manually trigger the syncronisation of addresses by running the cronjob (up to) twice on both ends for the shared secret exchange and then on both servers trigger::

 occ dav:sync-system-addressbook
 occ federation:sync-addressbooks


.. _label-public-link-share:

Creating Federation Shares via public Link Share
------------------------------------------------

Check the ``Share link`` entry to expose more sharing options (which are 
described more fully in :doc:`file_sharing_configuration`). You may create a 
Federation share by allowing Nextcloud to create a public link for you, and then 
email it to the person you want to create the share with.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-6.png
   
You may optionally set a password and expiration date on it. When your recipient 
receives your email they must click the link, or copy it to a Web 
browser. They will see a page displaying a thumbnail of the file, with a button 
to **Add to your Nextcloud**.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-8.png

Your recipient should click the **Add to your Nextcloud** button. On the next 
screen your recipient needs to enter the URL to their Nextcloud 
server, and then press the return key.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-9.png

Your recipient has to take one more step, and that is to confirm creating the 
federated cloud share link by clicking the **Accept** button.

.. figure:: images/create_public_share-10.png

Un-check the ``Share link`` checkbox to disable any federated cloud share 
created this way.

Configuration tips
------------------

The Sharing section on your Admin page allows you to control how your users 
manage federated cloud shares:

* Check ``Enforce password protection`` to require passwords on link shares.
* Check ``Set default expiration date`` to require an expiration date on link 
  shares.
* Check ``Allow public uploads`` to allow two-way file sharing.

Your Apache Web server must have ``mod_rewrite`` enabled, and you must have 
``trusted_domains`` correctly configured in ``config.php`` to allow external 
connections (see :doc:`../installation/installation_wizard`). Consider also 
enabling SSL to encrypt all traffic between your servers .

Your Nextcloud server creates the share link from the URL that you used to log 
into the server, so make sure that you log into your server using a URL that is 
accessible to your users. For example, if you log in via its LAN IP address, 
such as ``http://192.168.10.50``, then your share URL will be something like 
``http://192.168.10.50/nextcloud/index.php/s/jWfCfTVztGlWTJe``, which is not 
accessible outside of your LAN. This also applies to using the server name; for 
access outside of your LAN you need to use a fully-qualified domain name such as 
``http://myserver.example.com``, rather than ``http://myserver``.
